Adds optimize FID article (#2784)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/optimize-fid/index.md

---
title: Optimize First Input Delay
subhead: How to respond faster to user interactions.
authors:
  - houssein
  - addyosmani
date: 2020-05-05
hero: hero.png

> alt: Optimize FID banner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
alt: A hand touching a smartphone screen next to the text "Optimize FID"
```

simulated in a lab environment. **A real user interaction** is required in order to measure the
response delay.

<picture>
  <source srcset="../vitals/fid_8x2.svg" media="(min-width: 640px)">
  <img class="w-screenshot w-screenshot--filled"
      src="../vitals/fid_4x3.svg"
      alt="Good fid values are 2.5 seconds, poor values are greater than 4.0
            seconds and anything in between needs improvement">
</picture>

To help predict FID in the [lab](/how-to-measure-speed/#lab-data-vs-field-data), we
recommend [Total Blocking Time (TBT)](/tbt/). They measure different things, but
improvements in TBT usually correspond to improvements in FID. 

The main cause of a poor FID is **heavy JavaScript execution**. Optimizing how JavaScript parses,
compiles, and executes on your web page will directly reduce FID.

## Heavy JavaScript execution

The browser cannot respond to most user input while it's executing JavaScript on the main thread. In other words, the
browser can't respond to user interactions while the main thread is busy. To improve this:

+   [Reduce JavaScript execution time](#reduce-javascript-execution)

> +   [Break up Long Tasks](#break-long-tasks)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+   [Break up Long Tasks](#long-tasks)
```

  .then((module) => {	
    // Do something with the module.	
  });	
```

Dynamically importing JavaScript on certain user interactions (such as changing a route or
displaying a modal) will make sure that code not used for the initial page load is only fetched when
needed.

Aside from general browser support, dynamic import syntax can be used in many different build
systems.

+   If you use [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/guides/code-splitting/),	
    [Rollup](https://medium.com/rollup/rollup-now-has-code-splitting-and-we-need-your-help-46defd901c82),	
    or [Parcel](https://parceljs.org/code_splitting.html) as a module bundler, take advantage of	
    their dynamic import support. 	
+   Client-side frameworks, like	
    [React](https://reactjs.org/docs/code-splitting.html#reactlazy),	
    [Angular](https://angular.io/guide/lazy-loading-ngmodules), and	
    [Vue](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/components-dynamic-async.html#Async-Components) provide	
    abstractions to make it easier to lazy-load at the component-level.

{% Aside %}
Take a look at [Reduce JavaScript payloads with code
splitting](/reduce-javascript-payloads-with-code-splitting/) to learn more about code-splitting.

> {% endAside %}
> 
> 
> ### Minimize unused polyfills	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% endAside %}

Aside from code-splitting, always use [async or	
defer](https://javascript.info/script-async-defer) for scripts that are not necessary for	
critical-path or above-the-fold content.	

```html	
<script defer src="..."></script>	
<script async src="..."></script>	
```	

Unless there is a specific reason not to, all third-party scripts should be loaded with either `defer`	
or `async` by default.

### Minimize unused polyfills	
```

---
title: Optimize First Input Delay
subhead: How to respond faster to user interactions.
authors:
  - houssein
  - addyosmani

> date: 2020-05-05

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2020-05-04
```

> date: 2020-05-04

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2020-05-05
```

hero: hero.png

> alt: A hand touching a smartphone screen next to the text "Optimize FID"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
alt: A hand touching a smartphone screen
```

description: | 
  First Input Delay (FID) measures the time from when a user first interacts with your site
  to the time when the browser is actually able to respond to that interaction. Learn how to
  optimize FID by minimizing unused JavaScript, breaking up Long Tasks, and improving interaction
  readiness.
tags:
  - post
  - fast
  - web-vitals
  - first-input-delay
  - fid
  - lighthouse
---

<blockquote>
  <p>
    I clicked but nothing happened! Why can't I interact with this page? 😢
  </p>
</blockquote>

[First Contentful Paint](/fcp/) (FCP) and [Largest Contentful
Paint](/lcp/) (LCP) are both metrics that measure the time it takes for content to
visually render (paint) on a page. Although important, paint times do not capture _load
responsiveness_: or how quickly a page responds to user interaction.

> [First Input Delay](/fid/) (FID) is a [Core Web Vitals](/metrics/) metric that captures a user's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[First Input Delay](/fid/) (FID) is a [Core Web Vitals](/vitals/) metric that captures a user's
```

first impression of a site's interactivity and responsiveness. It measures the time from when a user
first interacts with a page to the time when the browser is actually able to respond to that
interaction. FID is a [field metric](/user-centric-performance-metrics/#in-the-field) and cannot be
simulated in a lab environment. **A real user interaction** is required in order to measure the
response delay.

<picture>

>   <source srcset="../vitals/fid_8x2.svg" media="(min-width: 640px)">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <source srcset="/vitals/fid_8x2.svg" media="(min-width: 640px)">
```

  <img class="w-screenshot w-screenshot--filled"

>       src="../vitals/fid_4x3.svg"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      src="/vitals/fid_4x3.svg"
```

>       alt="Good fid values are 2.5 seconds, poor values are greater than 4.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      alt="Good FID scores are 2.5 seconds, poor scores are greater than 4.0
```

>             seconds and anything in between needs improvement">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            seconds and anything in between needs improvement.">
```

</picture>

> To approximate FID in the [lab](/how-to-measure-speed/#lab-data-vs-field-data), we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To help predict FID in the [lab](/how-to-measure-speed/#lab-data-vs-field-data), we
```
I think "approximate" came from me so I'll just switch to the option that makes most sense to me

recommend [Total Blocking Time (TBT)](/tbt/). They measure different things, but
improvements in TBT usually correspond to improvements in FID. 

The main cause of a poor FID is **heavy JavaScript execution**. Optimizing how JavaScript parses,

> compiles, and executes on your web page will directly reduce input delay.

Reviewer 2: While this is technically true, it might be better to focus on "first input delay" specifically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
compiles, and executes on your web page will directly reduce FID.
```

## Heavy JavaScript execution

> The browser cannot respond to user input while it's executing JavaScript. In other words, the

Reviewer 2: You might simplify this to say: "The browser cannot respond to most user input while it's executing JavaScript on the main thread" (also, I added "most").

What you have is technically not correct if you consider worker execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The browser cannot respond to most user input while it's executing JavaScript on the main thread. In other words, the
```

browser can't respond to user interactions while the main thread is busy. To improve this:

+   [Reduce JavaScript execution time](#reduce-javascript-execution)
+   [Break up Long Tasks](#break-long-tasks)
+   [Optimize your page for interaction readiness](#optimize-interaction-readiness)
+   [Use a web worker](#web-worker)

### Reduce JavaScript execution time {: #reduce-javascript-execution }

> Reducing the amount of JavaScript on your page reduces the amount of time that the browser needs to

Reviewer 2: You have "reduce" twice. It might flow better if you say either:

- "Reducing the amount of JavaScript on your page **lessens** the amount..."
- "**Limiting** the amount of JavaScript on your page reduces the amount..."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Limiting the amount of JavaScript on your page reduces the amount of time that the browser needs to
```

spend parsing, compiling, and executing JavaScript code. This speeds up how fast the browser can
begin to respond to any user interactions.

To reduce the amount of JavaScript executed on your page:

+   Minify and compress JavaScript files
+   Defer unused JavaScript
+   Minimize unused polyfills

> In addition to minimizing JavaScript, breaking up long-running code into smaller tasks can allow the

Reviewer 2: Hmmm, I think you should link to some guidance on "breaking up long tasks", but I can't really find any good guidance to link to.

I guess there this? https://web.dev/custom-metrics/#long-tasks-api

What do you think? Know of anything better?

Reviewer 2: OK, now I see you mention this below. Maybe link to the section below from here then?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to minimizing JavaScript, [breaking up long-running code into smaller tasks](#long-tasks) can allow the
```

> browser to run input handlers sooner which can improve FID.

Reviewer 2: s/sooner which/sooner, which/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
browser to run input handlers sooner, which can improve FID.
```

JavaScript files without the need to transpile them. If you use a module bundler and want to include
Terser in your toolchain:

+   webpack and Parcel already minify using Terser by default in `production` mode
+   If you use Rollup, include
    [rollup-plugin-terser](https://www.npmjs.com/package/rollup-plugin-terser) as an output plugin

In addition to minification, compress your JavaScript resources to minimize their delivery size. If
possible, use
[Brotli](https://opensource.googleblog.com/2015/09/introducing-brotli-new-compression.html) which
provides better compression results than
[Gzip](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=whGwm0Lky2s&feature=youtu.be&t=14m11s) and [can be used in
almost all newer browsers](https://caniuse.com/#feat=brotli).

{% Aside %}
For more details, refer to the [Minify and compress network payloads](/reduce-network-payloads-using-text-compression/) guide.
{% endAside %}

### Defer unused JavaScript

By default all JavaScript is render-blocking. When the browser encounters a script tag that links to
an external JavaScript file, it must pause what it's doing and download, parse, compile, and execute

> that JavaScript. Therefore you should only load the code that's needed for loading the page or

Reviewer 2: The phrase "only **load** the code that's needed for **loading** the page" is a bit awkward. (Due to repeated "load").

How about: "...only load the code that's needed for the page or..."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that JavaScript. Therefore you should only load the code that's needed for the page or
```

responding to user input.

The [Coverage](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/coverage) tab in Chrome

> DevTools can tell you how much JavaScript is not being used on your web page.
> 
> ![Coverage tab in Chrome DevTools](./coverage-panel-js.png)	
> 
> To cut down on unused JavaScript:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DevTools can tell you how much JavaScript is not being used on your web page.

<img class="w-screenshot w-screenshot-filled" src="coverage-panel-js.png" alt="The Coverage tab.">

To cut down on unused JavaScript:
```

> <img class="w-screenshot w-screenshot-filled" src="coverage-panel-js.png" alt="The Coverage tab.">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img class="w-screenshot w-screenshot--filled" src="coverage-panel-js.png" alt="The Coverage tab.">
```

    // Do something with the module.	
  });	
```

Dynamically importing JavaScript on certain user interactions (such as changing a route or
displaying a modal) will make sure that code not used for the initial page load is only fetched when
needed.

Aside from general browser support, dynamic import syntax can be used in many different build
systems.

+   If you use [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/guides/code-splitting/),	
    [Rollup](https://medium.com/rollup/rollup-now-has-code-splitting-and-we-need-your-help-46defd901c82),	
    or [Parcel](https://parceljs.org/code_splitting.html) as a module bundler, take advantage of	
    their dynamic import support. 	
+   Client-side frameworks, like	
    [React](https://reactjs.org/docs/code-splitting.html#reactlazy),	
    [Angular](https://angular.io/guide/lazy-loading-ngmodules), and	
    [Vue](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/components-dynamic-async.html#Async-Components) provide	
    abstractions to make it easier to lazy-load at the component-level.

{% Aside %}
Take a look at [Reduce JavaScript payloads with code
splitting](/reduce-javascript-payloads-with-code-splitting/) to learn more about code-splitting.
{% endAside %}

> Aside from code-splitting, always use [async or	

Reviewer 2: Hmmm, I mean this is good advice, but I'm not sure `async` and `defer` it'll reduce FID.

> Aside from code-splitting, always use [async or	
> defer](https://javascript.info/script-async-defer) for scripts that are not necessary for	
> critical-path or above-the-fold content.	
> 
> ```html	
> <script defer src="..."></script>	
> <script async src="..."></script>	
> ```	
> 
> Unless there is a specific reason not to, all third-party scripts should be loaded with either `defer`	
> or `async` by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+   If you use [Babel](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/index.html) as a transpiler, use	
    [`@babel/preset-env`](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-env) to only include the polyfills	
    needed for the browsers you plan on targeting. For Babel 7.9, enable the	
    [`bugfixes`](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-env#bugfixes) option to further cut down	
    on any unneeded polyfills	
+   Use the module/nomodule pattern to deliver two separate bundles (`@babel/preset-env` also	
    supports this via [`target.esmodules`](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-env#targetsesmodules))	

    ```html	
    <script type="module" src="modern.js"></script>	
    <script nomodule src="legacy.js" defer></script>	
    ```	

    Many newer ECMAScript features compiled with Babel are already supported in environments	
    that support JavaScript modules. So by doing this, you simplify the process of making sure that	
    only transpiled code is used for browsers that actually need it.

{% Aside %}
The [Serve modern code to modern browsers for faster page
loads](/serve-modern-code-to-modern-browsers/) guide goes into more detail about this topic.
{% endAside %}

> ## Break up Long Tasks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Break up Long Tasks {: #long-tasks }
```

If you've already attempted to reduce the amount of JavaScript that loads on a single page, it can
be useful to break down long-running code  into **smaller, asynchronous tasks**. 

> **Long Tasks** are JavaScript execution periods where users may

Reviewer 2: Maybe link to https://web.dev/custom-metrics/#long-tasks-api?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[**Long Tasks**](/custom-metrics/#long-tasks-api) are JavaScript execution periods where users may
```

> **Long Tasks** are JavaScript execution periods where users may

Reviewer 2: I'd reverse these first two sentences. You start by saying why a long task is bad, and then you say what it is. How about:

"Long Tasks are synchronous, uninterruptible chunks of work that take longer than 50 ms for the browser to perform. Any time the main thread is blocked for more than 50 ms, users interacting with the page my find it unresponsive."

find your UI unresponsive. Any piece of code that blocks the main thread for 50 ms or more can be

> characterized as a Long Task. Long Tasks are commonly a cause of poor FID scores and are a sign of

Reviewer 2: I mean, technically they're the only cause :)

Maybe just say: "Long tasks are a sign of potential JavaScript bloat..."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
characterized as a Long Task. Long Tasks are a sign of
```

potential JavaScript bloat (loading and executing more than a user may need right now).  

> Separating long tasks can reduce input delay on your site. 

Reviewer 2: I'd prefer "Splitting up" over "Separating".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splitting up long tasks can reduce input delay on your site. 
```

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img src="./long-task.png" alt="Long Tasks in Chrome DevTools">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="./long-task.png" alt="Long Tasks in Chrome DevTools">
```

</figure>

FID should improve noticeably as you adopt best practices like code-splitting and breaking up your
Long Tasks. While TBT is not a field metric, it's useful for checking progress towards ultimately
improving both Time To Interactive (TTI) and FID.

{% Aside %}
For more information, take a look at [Are long JavaScript tasks delaying your Time to
Interactive?](/long-tasks-devtools/) guide goes into more detail about this topic.
{% endAside %}

## Optimize your page for  interaction readiness 

There are a number of common causes for poor FID and TBT scores in web apps that rely heavily on
JavaScript:

### First-party script execution can delay interaction readiness

+   JS size bloat, heavy execution times and inefficient chunking can slow down how soon a
    page can respond to user input and impact FID, TBT and TTI. Progressive loading of code and
    features can help spread this work out and improve interaction readiness.
+   Server-side rendered apps may look like they're getting pixels painted on the screen

>     quickly, but beware user interactions being blocked by large script executions (e.g

Reviewer 2: s/beware user/beware of user/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    quickly, but beware of user interactions being blocked by large script executions (e.g
```

    re-hydration to wire up event listeners). This can take several hundred milliseconds, sometimes

>     even seconds, if route-based code-splitting is being used. Consider shifting more logic

Reviewer 2: This makes it sounds like route-based code splitting is the problem.

Reviewer 2: s/code-splitting/code splitting/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    even seconds, if route-based code splitting is being used. Consider shifting more logic
```

    server-side or generating more content statically during build time.

> Below are the TBT scores before and after optimizing first-party script loading for one of our

Reviewer 2: Who is "our"?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are the TBT scores before and after optimizing first-party script loading for an
```

> applications. By moving costly script loading (and execution) for a non-essential component off the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
application. By moving costly script loading (and execution) for a non-essential component off the
```

critical path, users were able to interact with the page much sooner.

> ![Improvements in TBT score in Lighthouse after optimizing first-party script](./tbt-before-after-first-party.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img class="w-screenshot" src="tbt-before-after-first-party.png" 
     alt="Improvements in TBT score in Lighthouse after optimizing the first-party script.">
```

### Data-fetching can impact many aspects of interaction readiness

+   Waiting on a waterfall of cascading fetches (e.g. JS and data fetches for components) can
    impact interaction latency. Aim to minimize a reliance on cascading data fetches.
+   Large inline datastores can push out HTML parsing time and impact both paint and interaction
    metrics. Aim to minimize how much data needs to be post-processed on the client-side.

### Third-party script execution can delay interaction latency too

+   Many sites include third-party tags and analytics which can keep the network busy and
    make the main thread periodically unresponsive, impacting interaction latency. Explore

>     on-demand loading of third-party code (e.g maybe don't load those below-the-fold ads until

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    on-demand loading of third-party code (e.g. maybe don't load those below-the-fold ads until
```

on a background thread. Moving non-UI operations to a separate worker thread can cut down main
thread blocking time and consequently improve FID.

Consider using the following libraries to make it easier to use web workers on your site:

+   [Comlink](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/comlink): A helper library that abstracts
    ``postMessage`` and makes it easier to use
+   [Workway](https://github.com/WebReflection/workway): A general purpose web worker exporter
+   [Workerize](https://github.com/developit/workerize): Move a module into a web worker

{% Aside %}
To learn more about how web workers can execute code off the main thread, refer to [Use Web Workers
to run JavaScript off the browser's main thread](/off-main-thread/).
{% endAside %}

## Developer tools

A number of tools are available to measure and debug FID:

+   [Lighthouse 6.0](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse) does not include
    support for FID since it is a field metric. However, [Total Blocking
    Time](/tbt/) (TBT) can be used as a proxy. Optimizations that improve TBT should
    also improve FID in the field.

>     ![Lighthouse 6.0](./lighthouse.jpg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <img class="w-screenshot" src="lighthouse.jpg" alt="Lighthouse 6.0.">
```

interaction. FID is a [field metric](/user-centric-performance-metrics/#in-the-field) and cannot be
simulated in a lab environment. **A real user interaction** is required in order to measure the
response delay.

<picture>
  <source srcset="/vitals/fid_8x2.svg" media="(min-width: 640px)">
  <img class="w-screenshot w-screenshot--filled"
      src="/vitals/fid_4x3.svg"
      alt="Good FID scores are 2.5 seconds, poor scores are greater than 4.0
            seconds and anything in between needs improvement.">
</picture>

To help predict FID in the [lab](/how-to-measure-speed/#lab-data-vs-field-data), we
recommend [Total Blocking Time (TBT)](/tbt/). They measure different things, but
improvements in TBT usually correspond to improvements in FID. 

The main cause of a poor FID is **heavy JavaScript execution**. Optimizing how JavaScript parses,
compiles, and executes on your web page will directly reduce FID.

## Heavy JavaScript execution

The browser cannot respond to most user input while it's executing JavaScript on the main thread. In other words, the
browser can't respond to user interactions while the main thread is busy. To improve this:

> +   [Reduce JavaScript execution time](#reduce-javascript-execution)
> +   [Break up Long Tasks](#long-tasks)
> +   [Optimize your page for interaction readiness](#optimize-interaction-readiness)
> +   [Use a web worker](#web-worker)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Reduce JavaScript execution time](#reduce-javascript-execution)
* [Break up Long Tasks](#long-tasks)
* [Optimize your page for interaction readiness](#optimize-interaction-readiness)
* [Use a web worker](#web-worker)
```

needed.

Aside from general browser support, dynamic import syntax can be used in many different build
systems.

+   If you use [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/guides/code-splitting/),	
    [Rollup](https://medium.com/rollup/rollup-now-has-code-splitting-and-we-need-your-help-46defd901c82),	
    or [Parcel](https://parceljs.org/code_splitting.html) as a module bundler, take advantage of	
    their dynamic import support. 	
+   Client-side frameworks, like	
    [React](https://reactjs.org/docs/code-splitting.html#reactlazy),	
    [Angular](https://angular.io/guide/lazy-loading-ngmodules), and	
    [Vue](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/components-dynamic-async.html#Async-Components) provide	
    abstractions to make it easier to lazy-load at the component-level.

{% Aside %}
Take a look at [Reduce JavaScript payloads with code
splitting](/reduce-javascript-payloads-with-code-splitting/) to learn more about code-splitting.
{% endAside %}

Aside from code-splitting, always use [async or	
defer](https://javascript.info/script-async-defer) for scripts that are not necessary for	
critical-path or above-the-fold content.	

```html	

> <script defer src="..."></script>	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<script defer src="…"></script>	
```

> <script async src="..."></script>	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<script async src="…"></script>	
```

[**Long Tasks**](/custom-metrics/#long-tasks-api) are JavaScript execution periods where users may
find your UI unresponsive. Any piece of code that blocks the main thread for 50 ms or more can be
characterized as a Long Task. Long Tasks are a sign of
potential JavaScript bloat (loading and executing more than a user may need right now).  
Splitting up long tasks can reduce input delay on your site. 

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="./long-task.png" alt="Long Tasks in Chrome DevTools">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Chrome DevTools <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2020/03/devtools#long-tasks">visualizes Long Tasks</a> in the Performance Panel</figcaption>
</figure>

FID should improve noticeably as you adopt best practices like code-splitting and breaking up your
Long Tasks. While TBT is not a field metric, it's useful for checking progress towards ultimately
improving both Time To Interactive (TTI) and FID.

{% Aside %}
For more information, take a look at [Are long JavaScript tasks delaying your Time to
Interactive?](/long-tasks-devtools/) guide goes into more detail about this topic.
{% endAside %}

> ## Optimize your page for  interaction readiness 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Optimize your page for interaction readiness 
```
